[CHIME MUSIC]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GREGG BRADEN: Hello.
My name's Gregg Braden.
And I'd like to welcome you
to this all-new presentation
of "The Divine Matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief."
In the last episode, we
saw that while time may not
be as universal as
scientists once thought,
it appears to be what we think
of as the program that drives
the events of the world and
the experience of our lives
forward.
Well, in the following
episode, we'll
explore the events
as cycles of time
and how time patterns allow
us to know and to calculate,
even predict, when the
experiences of our past
can show up again
in the present.
For anyone who is old enough
to be aware of world events
on September 11, 2001, I know
that you remember that day,
and you know where you were.
I was in Australia over 9/11.
I saw the whole event
play out through the news
feeds coming from the Middle
East, coming from Australia,
and coming from Europe and Asia.
And when I finally
returned to my home
a few days later when
the flights resumed,
I returned home to a very,
very different country.
The world had changed.
My country had changed.
The way that I
travel had changed.
And when I found myself in my
office thinking about what had
just happened-- what was the
impact of 9/11 on the world--
and if I allowed myself to move
beyond the immediate horrors
that were still
reverberating through my body
and my emotions, as well as
a country in deep mourning,
my mind began to ask
questions about the event.
How could something so massive,
so tragic, happen so quickly?
And how could it have
happened without us having,
apparently, a clue,
at least consciously,
that it was happening?
Could we have known, is the
question that I was asking.
And the reason I was asking,
because as a scientist,
I'm trained to think of the
world in terms of cycles.
I'm trained to think of
the events of our lives
in terms of cycles.
And so my question was
simply, were the events
of September 11 part
of a pattern that
was unfolding in our lives?
And if so, were the events of
that pattern following cycles
that we could have known,
that we could have calculated,
maybe even predicted?
Well, interestingly,
my background
gave me everything
that I needed to answer
that question for
myself, my background
in the hard sciences--
I'm a degreed geologist--
a strong background in life
sciences, which are
all about cycles,
as well as my experience
in the corporations, where
I had the opportunity to
put my scientific background
to the test, to use it in
problem solving in Fortune 500
companies.
All of these
experiences prepared
me to answer the question
that I had just asked myself.
Was 9/11 part of a cycle?
Was the pattern,
it was repeating?
And if so, could we
recognize the pattern?
Could I recognize that pattern?
Well, during the 1980s, I
worked in the defense industry
as a senior computer
systems designer.
And I'm sharing it with you
now, because my job at that time
was to write software
looking for patterns in data,
the same kinds of patterns
that I now suspected
were playing out in the
repeating cycles of history
as 9/11.
So my thinking was very simple.
It was based upon
three very fundamental,
scientifically sound principles.
Number one, Einstein's
equations forever
merged our thinking
of time and space
into the concept of
what we call space-time.
And we discussed this
in the last episode.
Number two, that
means that everything
that we know in our lives--
everything we know
in our world--
it's happening within
the matrix described
in the previous
episodes in space-time.
So no matter what it
is-- all the good things,
all the bad things, the greatest
joys, the deepest pains--
everything is happening
within this matrix,
this field of energy.
And what this means
is that everything--
from love and war and peace and
the rise and fall of the stock
markets and the rise and
fall of civilizations--
they're all part
of this space-time.
So if we understand how
space and time are unfolding,
they are informing us as to
how these cycles are repeating
and possibly where they
begin in our lives.
So that brings us to
number three, number three.
Principle number three,
the things that happen
in space-time--
it makes sense that they would
follow the rules of nature--
natural rhythms,
natural cycles--
that unfold as
nature's mathematics,
things like the phi
ratio or the golden mean.
Number four, all of
this says that we
can think of the
things that happen
in time as places within
the cycles of time,
locations in time.
And if that's true, it means
those locations can be measured
and calculated and predicted.
So it all boils down
to a single key.
And the key is simply this.
If you know where
you are in a cycle,
then you can know when the
conditions that began that
cycle-- what are
called the seed--
when that seed
will repeat again.
So I want to be absolutely clear
about what I'm saying here.
We're talking about predicting
when the conditions of an event
may repeat, not necessarily
the event itself.
And let me just give you an
example of what I mean here.
I grew up in the Midwest
of the United States
in Missouri, the
state of Missouri.
And it was part of a region
that was known as Tornado Alley.
Tornado Alley is a
geographic location
where the weather patterns
every year are very predictable.
When the moist air out
of the Gulf comes up,
and the cold air from
the Arctic comes down,
and they meet over the Midwest,
those summer conditions,
they precipitate the
opportunity for tornadoes
to appear during
those warm months,
usually between June,
July, and August.
So here's the key.
Those conditions-- the
conditions may be present.
It doesn't necessarily
mean that a tornado
is going to happen, OK?
So the conditions
for the tornado--
the conditions that
precipitate the tornado--
may be present.
It doesn't predict that
there will be a tornado.
In the same way, when we're
talking about cycles of time,
if we know an event that
seeded a pattern of energy
in the cycle, if we
know when that happened,
and if we know that
that pattern of energy
is going to follow nature's
laws, nature's mathematics,
nature's rhythms,
then we can tell,
when the energy of
that seed returns,
those are the conditions
that will allow an event.
It doesn't necessarily mean
that the event will happen,
because we always
have free will.
We always have the free will to
determine a different outcome
within the cycle.
So I want to be very
clear about what
we're talking about so
that we can apply this
to 9/11 and other events
on a global level,
and ultimately, to the events of
our lives on a personal level.
For those events to
make sense, we've
got to understand how these
patterns and rhythms and cycles
work.
So I'm going to invite you
to think about it like this.
A cycle begins with an
event that sets into motion
a pattern of energy.
And that pattern will repeat
on a rhythmic basis, following
the mathematics of
nature, again and again
and again, until something
changes the pattern.
So if the pattern
doesn't change then
the event will
continue to repeat
on a scale that is
predictable and something
that we can calculate.
A perfect example of this--
in nature, climate is
a cyclic phenomenon.
The economics of the world
are based upon cycles.
Human conflict, we
now know, is directly
linked to the solar cycles,
the cycles of the Sun,
and how the magnetic
fields of the Sun
influence the magnetic
fields of the Earth
and the magnetic fields
of the human heart.
We talked about
this in episode one.
When the magnetic
fields are strong,
humans are more
willing to cooperate.
We're less aggressive.
When the magnetic
fields are weak,
just the opposite happens.
So I'm sharing these couple
of examples of natural rhythms
and natural cycles that repeat
again and again and again
on a rhythmic basis that
can be known and calculated.
Well, our experiences
as individuals,
our collective experiences,
our global experiences,
appear to follow the same
rhythm and the same pattern.
So what's interesting
about these patterns--
I'm going to invite you to
think about this in your mind.
Visualize this on the
whiteboard of your mind.
A seed event sets into motion
a pattern of energy, all right?
That seed event can be anything
emotionally significant
on a global or on a
personal level, all right?
So the seed event sets
a pattern into motion.
And the pattern
follows the rhythm.
And that rhythm
determines-- nature's math
determines-- when
that cycle ends
and when the next one begins.
And this is where it's
especially useful to know
about we're talking about.
Because there is a place
between where one cycle ends
and the next cycle
begins where neither is
present for a period of time.
That place is called
the choice point.
In a choice point, we
have the opportunity
to change the pattern before
the next cycle begins.
This is true in our personal
relationships, as you'll see.
It's also true on a global
level, as you will also see.
So I'm describing
these principles
so that we can now go in
and actually apply them
in a way that helps us to
understand why these events are
happening the way
they're happening.
Let me be very clear.
It doesn't condone.
It doesn't excuse.
But it gives us a
greater meaning.
We step back and look at
the big picture, and we say,
is the world going crazy?
The world's not going crazy.
The world is experiencing
the consequences of patterns
that have been set into motion.
And if we know that,
if we are empowered
to know that we
are also empowered
to use the opportunity, the
potent opportunity of a choice
point to change the
patterns in the next cycles.
I also want to be
very clear that we
can make a choice anytime.
So we're not bound only
to the choice point.
The value of knowing
about the choice point
is that that is when the
deck is stacked in our favor.
That is when our
choices can be the most
potent, because they occur at
a place between the cycles.
This place of the
between, our ancestors
have known for a very long time.
It's the space between
is where the action is.
We talk about
prayer, for example.
Our ancestors have
always told us there
are two times during
a day on Earth,
a day in this world, when
our prayers could be the most
potent.
It's the time in between.
It is in the morning when
the light shows in the sky,
yet the sun has not appeared.
So it's not really nighttime,
yet it's not daytime.
It's called the crack
between the worlds.
And the crack between the
worlds happens again at dusk.
The sun disappears, but
the sky is still light.
The stars aren't out yet.
That is the time when
it is the most potent
to offer our prayers,
according to our indigenous
and ancient traditions.
Well, quantum physics
tells us the same thing--
that we are not continuous
beings, that we are pulsing,
pulsing fields of quanta.
This is the qualities of light--
little packets of light--
that are the study
of quantum physics.
So we are not continuous.
And it's the space between
each of those quantum bursts
is where we have the
opportunity for change.
Well, it's hard to
time that change.
As you'll see in
later episodes, you
don't have to, because there are
states of consciousness where
we can grab onto the space in
between to make the change.
I'm just sharing this so that
you know the principles we're
talking about.
These are universal
principles that
apply to the world around us.
They're not metaphors.
And they're not something
that someone just made up
for this specific episode, OK?
So with these ideas
in mind, I want
to take a look at
what these cycles mean
to us, what 9/11 meant to us.
As I began to consider
everything that I've just
shared with you--
the role of cycles, nature's
rhythms, nature's mathematics,
what cycles mean in our lives--
I used my background in
computer science and math
and the physical
sciences to build
an algorithm that
reflected everything
that I've just shared.
And I wanted to
test this algorithm
to see if it would
give me personally
a greater meaning to the horror
that I'd experienced as 9/11.
So I developed what I now
call a time code calculator.
And you're seeing an image of
this calculator on the screen.
It is a very simple interface
that allows us to enter
a series of parameters,
including dates of when
specific events have
happened, so that we can use
the algorithm--
nature's mathematics--
to determine when a pattern
of energy would repeat,
when a pattern such as 9/11
would repeat in our lives
again.
OK.
Using the calculator that you
see on the screen and mode
number one-- and mode
number one is the mode
that helps us to understand
when an event of the past
will repeat again in a
particular cycle of time.
That's mode number one.
The second field
on the calculator
is the cycle within which
the event is happening.
And these are huge
cycles of time.
And for this
particular calculator,
I used a Mayan cycle
of 1,872,000 days,
or the 5,125-year cycle,
based upon cosmic events that
we've talked about
in other programs.
And I'll talk about it again
here in just a few moments.
So for the purposes of
what we're doing now,
the 5,000-year cycle is what I
entered into the second field.
In the third field,
the calculator
asks for the seed date for the
event that we are exploring.
So I'm going to use September
11, 2001 as an example of what
I'm talking about here.
So when we think about September
11, 2001, and we ask ourselves,
what are the qualities-- the
characteristics-- that make it
so unique?
Well, number one, I think it's
fair to say for most people
that the event was a
surprise, number two, that it
was an unexpected attack
on the United States.
So the way that we would
find a seed event for 9/11
is by asking ourselves when
in the past, before 9/11,
was America attacked
in a surprise manner?
And that date would
become the date
that we would enter
for the seed that
set into motion the pattern for
what we experienced as 9/11.
We don't have to look
very far to find the date,
because the date is
December 7, 1941.
It is a day that then-President
Franklin Roosevelt
named as a day of infamy, a day
that would go down in history.
It was the surprise and
the attack of America
in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.
So this was what I
found as an event that
matched the characteristics of
what we experienced as 9/11.
This is what I used as the seed
to plant into the calculator.
So my thinking is that this
event, the Pearl Harbor attack,
set into motion a
pattern of energy that
would repeat on a rhythmic,
cyclic basis, the pattern
of America being
surprised and attacked.
And if so, from the seed date,
it should give us 9/11 as one
of the fractal cycles
of the repeating time.
So when we plug
in the date and we
allow the algorithm to do
what the algorithm does,
what we find is this.
The first output
from the calculator
is a date that
surprised me at first--
surprised a lot of people
that were seeing this.
The first fractal gave
me the date of 1984.
And I looked at 1984.
And I said, well,
there was no surprise
attack of America in 1984.
But I looked a little closer.
And what I discovered is that
there was a planned surprise
attack on America in 1984.
And let me just tell you a
little bit about what happened.
In September of 1983, there
was a Boeing 747 aircraft.
It was a Korean airliner
aircraft that had accidentally
strayed into Russian airspace.
This was during the
height of the Cold War.
Suspicions were high.
And that plane was shot
down, and all 269 people
aboard that plane were killed,
including a US Congressman.
His name was Lawrence McDonald.
Now because of the thinking
during the Cold War--
the Russians knowing
that they had
downed the civilian aircraft,
Korean airline 747 jumbo jet,
with all 269 people aboard--
and because an American diplomat
was on that aircraft, they
expected that the United States
would retaliate against them.
And in an effort to
prevent that retaliation,
they preemptively
planned a major strike--
an attack, a surprise
attack-- on the United States
that was thwarted
for reasons that
are still very mysterious
in the history books.
The point is that the fractal
time calculator had calculated
that date as the date.
1984 is when the attack
was planned to happen.
The event happened in '83.
The surprise attack was
planned for the spring of '84.
And that is precisely when
the calculator told us
that the pattern recurred,
where we could expect a surprise
attack on America again.
Once I found that, I said,
well, it's telling us something.
What I did was I took that
date, then, as the new seed,
plugged it back
into the calculator.
And lo and behold,
the calculator
told me that March
of 2001 was the date.
And we now know that is actually
the date that the planning was
occurring.
That is when consciousness,
in consciousness, the energy
of 9/11 was being created.
And it actually was
carried out on 9/11.
And the calculator gave
me both of those dates.
So with this in
mind, suddenly, I
knew that this
calculator was correct.
And it gave us the
ability to look
into the past for big events
in the world, like 9/11.
And I began to apply
it to other events
just to see if it could
give us some sense--
help us to make sense--
of what's happening
in the world.
Now I want to
share with you some
of these other events,
because they pointed to a very
interesting phenomenon.
And the phenomenon brought
me to the realization
of really good news in
your life, in my life,
in your world, in
my world right now.
And that's what I want
to share with you.
So as I began to look at
other significant dates,
I chose dates of
global events that
were undeniable-- so for
example, the First World War.
The First World War-- the
seed for First World War--
was 1914.
That planted a seed that set
into motion a pattern of energy
that would repeat as World War--
the conditions for World War--
again and again and again.
Lo and behold, the
date hit exactly
on the date for World War II.
It hit on possible
dates in between.
It hit on a date of 2016.
I want you to hold that
in mind, because I'm going
to talk about other dates.
I plugged in the
first date, when
the world saw a global pandemic,
the epidemic of the flu.
This was the first time in the
20th century this happened.
The year was 1918.
So 1918 became the seed for
when we could reasonably
expect the conditions of
this pattern to repeat.
And again, not necessarily
the actual event,
but when would those
conditions repeat?
Well, I got a lot of other dates
that came with this, including
the date of 2016.
You're seeing a
pattern develop here.
I looked at global collapse.
When is the first time
we had a global collapse
of the economic system?
1929 was the seed date
for an economic collapse.
When could we reasonably
expect for the conditions
of that economic
collapse to happen again?
Well, a number of
other dates came up.
Those dates have all passed.
The last date was 2016.
So when we look at
this, what is happening
with this date of 2016?
Why is that date repeating
again and again and again?
So I'm going to go back
to the first seed date
that we talked about after 9/11.
That was the seed date
for global war, 1914.
I'm going to read to
you the dates that
came up as opportunities for
that pattern to repeat again.
After 1914, the
first seed was 1973.
After that, the repeat was 1997.
After that, the repeat was 2006.
After that, the repeat was
2009, then 2011, then 2012, then
2016.
Can you see what's
happening here?
Can you see that the time
between each of those dates
is getting closer and
closer and closer together?
For example, between 1914
and 1973, that's 59 years.
Between 1973 and
'97, that's 24 years.
Between 1997 and 2006,
that's nine years.
2006 to 2009 is three years.
2009 to '11 is two years.
2011 to 2012 is one year.
Can you see what's happening?
As we get closer to
the end of the cycle,
the potential for the repeat
of the patterns is collapsing.
It's becoming closer
and closer and closer,
until we reach the year 2016.
2016 was the opportunity
for all of these cycles
previous to reoccur again.
And the question is,
what is the big deal?
What is significant about 2016?
Well, to explain that,
I'm going to have
to go back in time just a
little bit just for a moment.
If you remember
the conversations
about the Mayan calendar
and the descriptions
that I shared in season
one of the Mayan calendar,
Mayan calendar is the
most accurate system
of timekeeping known to exist
before the 20th century.
And it is the most
accurate, even
in the 20th century,
for predicting
massive cosmic
cycles, cycles that
go beyond simply
what's happening
in our everyday world.
The Mayan calendar
told us that there
have been four cycles in the
past, each cycle of 5,125
years, and that we
have just completed
the fifth and the final cycle
in that series of cycles.
So together, those five
cycles of 5,125 years,
they're telling us about
a 26,000-year cycle called
the precession of the equinoxes.
Those cycles ended
on December 12, 2012.
And this was the significance
of that particular date.
That was the solar
significance of that date.
However, the
mathematicians tell us--
and the Mayans
themselves tell us--
that there is a
buffer of time that
overlaps the end of the cycle.
The cycle doesn't
end in a moment.
The world doesn't stop
and change in a moment.
It's a slow, gradual change.
It's a buffer that
lasts for 36 years.
And our 36-year-long
buffer began in 1980,
ended in the year 2016.
So what that means is
that the events that
are happening within that cycle,
all of the previous events
that have been potential,
as we get closer
and closer to the
end of the cycle,
the time between
one event happening
and the completion of
that event and the next
collapses into what we
call a simultaneous event.
What that means is that the
year 2016 was the year when
all of the seeds for all
of the frightening things
could have happened-- for
global war, for the pandemic,
for economic collapse.
If you remember earlier
in this episode,
I talked to you about the
significance of the space
between the cycles.
When one cycle ends,
before the next one begins,
there is a space in between
that's called the choice point.
It's true for personal cycles.
And we're going to talk about
that in another episode.
It's true for global cycles.
And what that says
to us is that 2016,
at the end of that buffer, we
were in that period of a choice
point.
Not only was 2016 the
opportunity for the most
frightening of the
cycles to repeat,
it is also the opportunity--
the greatest opportunity--
for peace in our world.
It's the greatest opportunity
for economic abundance.
It's the greatest
opportunity to transcend
all the cycles in the past.
And what does that
mean to us today?
We're only two years
past that 2016.
We're still statistically
within the margin of time
when all of those things
apply in our lives.
And this is what I
wanted to say to you.
The cycles of time,
they are real.
They begin with a seed that
sets into motion a pattern
that repeats until something
changes that cycle.
You and I are living this
rare, precious moment
in the history of our world and
the history of our civilization
and the history of our lives.
So just to be very clear
on what I've said--
because I know we have just
covered a lot of information,
a lot of material--
you and I are living
the greatest opportunity
for peace, the
greatest opportunity
to bring about positive
change in this world,
in the most
meaningful way that we
have seen in 5,000 years
of recorded human history.
The same time
cycles that play out
on the big scale of
the world also direct
the turning points of change for
our lives on a smaller scale.
In the next episode,
we'll discover
how to calculate the optimum
time for healthy change
in our personal patterns
of fractal time.
So I want to thank you for
joining me for today's program.
And be sure to tune in for our
next all-new episode of "The
Divine Matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief."